WebApi/Rest

1) REST = REpresentational State Transfer. Rest is the architectural principles by which you can design Web services.
   Introduced in 2000 by Roy Fielding at the University of California.
   Today REST has mostly displaced SOAP- and WSDL-based interface design because it's simpler to use.
   
2) Reource based.
   Representations.
   Six constraints (Uniform interface, stateless, client server, cacheable, layered system, code on demand)
   
    Uniform interface: URIs are used to identify resources.
                      Defines the interface between client and server.
					  Simplifies and decouples the architecture between client and server
					  For most web-based RESTfull services it means: HTTP verbs (GET, PUT, POST, DELETE)
					  URI (resource name, i.e. http://localhost:9264/bookservice/1)
					  HTTP response (status, body
   
	  Identification of resources:
		Individual resources are identified in requests, for example using URIs in Web-based REST systems.
		The resources themselves are conceptually separate from the representations that are returned to the client.
		For example, the server may send data from its database as HTML, XML or JSON, none of which are the server's
		internal representation.
		
	  Manipulation of resources through representations
		When a client holds a representation of a resource, including any metadata attached,
		it has enough information to modify or delete the resource.

	  Self-descriptive messages
		Each message includes enough information to describe how to process the message.
		For example, which parser to invoke may be specified by an Internet media type
		(previously known as a MIME type).

	  Hypermedia as the engine of application state (HATEOAS):
		Having accessed an initial URI for the REST application—analogous to a human Web user accessing the
		home page of a website, a REST client should then be able to use server-provided links dynamically
		to discover all the available actions and resources it needs. As access proceeds, the server responds
		with text that includes hyperlinks to other actions that are currently available.
		There is no need for the client to be hard-coded with information regarding the structure or dynamics
		of the REST service.[
   
    Stateless: No state stored on server.
   
    Client Server: Client and server are disconnected system (when data is not being transferred)
				 Separations of concerns -> Client handles GUI, Server handles data storage.
				 Interface between client and server is the HTTP protocol.
   
    Cacheable: Responses must, implicitly or explicitly, define themselves as cacheable,
			  or not, to prevent clients from reusing stale or inappropriate data in response
			  to further requests
			  
	Code on demand (optional): Servers can temporarily extend or customize the functionality of a client
							   by the transfer of executable code. Examples of this may include compiled
							   components such as Java applets and client-side scripts such as JavaScript.
   
3) Compliance with REST constraints allows: Scalability, Simplicity, Modifiability, Visibility, Portability, Reliability.

